A mother and her son - a ruddy skinned, long haired boy of no more than nine - cut their way through the dense underbrush of Palebend Forest, a day-and-a-half southeast of the Arrid Callum. It was cool in the nearly-complete shade of the forest canopy, but the air was humid.

As Karna’s hook-tipped machete broke through the brush into a clearing, his mother grabbed the back of his shirt and pulled him back against her, her free hand snapping to her mouth in a hushing gesture. He turned his head up to look at his mother, and she caught his gaze, responding with a relieved half smile. The woman nodded her head towards the clearing. “Look,” she said.

Through the rough-hewn opening Karna had torn through the underbrush on the clearing’s northern edge, he saw a massive, vaguely-humanoid creature with short blue-green fur, thick arms long enough to nearly touch the ground while standing, and elongated feet clearly built to spring, sprint, and climb. Its fur-tuffed ears were pointed like an elf, and its mean looking muzzle, fixed in a kind of eternal grin, was somewhere between that of a wild beast’s and a man’s.

The woman whispered to Karna, “A quaggoth. You almost never see them here, above ground. They hate the light. The tree canopy this time of year must make the Palebend tolerable.” She paused, then mused out loud, seemingly to herself this time, “I wonder what hole this one crawled out of."

The quaggoth leaped towards a thick tree nearby, its claws digging into its bark, and it scurried deftly upwards 30 feet. It scanned the middle distance, looking for something. Raising its chin, the quaggoth let loose a series of throaty, ape-like whoops that echoed through the forest.

Still watching, the woman whispered to her son, “Legends say they could speak like us once. Long ago, in the Age of Many. That they were possessed of wise thought.”

She patted her son’s shoulder and nodded back the way the two had just come. “I wonder what this one would have had to say.”

