Hey buddies!

I don’t wanna bury the lede: A couple weeks ago, I turned off my D&D Beyond subscription because Wizards of the Coast - owners of the D&D brand - started doing some shady sh*t that bothered me ... a lot. My subscription for the month of January had just been charged, so that subscription has still been “live” even though I'd canceled.

I’ve since decided that - because of a lot of even *crummier* stuff that has come out since the initial shady sh*t - I’m *not* turning my D&D Beyond subscription back on. As part of our campaign's setup on DDB, I have always shared content with you that I purchased on the service. (Gods, I have purchased *so much* content on DDB.) Any content that I share with you is available for you to use in your DDB character sheet. When my subscription lapses on Saturday, you'll no longer have access to that content.

Most of the content that you have had access to will still show up on your character sheet after the subcription lapses (though if you were to *remove* any of it, you wouldn't be able to re-add it later). The one exception is spells. Any spells that are connected to content I've purchased will disappear immediately.

HOWEVER: I now have a fully functional path forward for our game. Using a community-built tool for Foundry (Foundry is our maps tool if you don't track the names of some of this stuff), I was able to suck down all the content I’ve ever bought on DDB to our Foundry instance. It took a little thinking and figuring, but I now have a way for us to continue editing and doing level ups to our characters for as long as we need *using character sheets that are built into Foundry*.

There’s no question - the Foundry character sheets are not as easy to use or feature-full as the DDB character sheets. I’ll miss the DDB sheets a lot. But I am confident we’ll be able to keep things on the rails with this setup - and with a *very* small amount of tutelage from me about where stuff goes.

Even if you plan to use IRL pencil and paper sheets, there’s a benefit to having all the DDB stuff in Foundry: this will give you a place to browse spells at level-up time that you would otherwise not have access to on DDB - for example, from sources like Tasha’s Cauldron of Everything and other sources.

Thanks for tolerating my idealism and unending well of frustration at corporate greed and stuipidity. (If you wanna hear me yap for awhile about the whole Wizards of the Coast/Hasbro fiasco, just hmu.)

